# Ninja Sublime Snippets
One thing I have learnt as Developer and DevOps engineer is  that automation is everything. It saves you time keystrokes, frustration  and not forgetting the best part it makes you a lazy developer! Cool.
> “I choose a lazy person to do a hard job. Because a lazy person will find an easy way to do it.”  -
Bill gates

Not my words people, ask the big guy.

## Why did I build this tool
Apart from being lazy, I am not a big fan of repeating stuff it can get boring. While working on a number of projects I have realised that I use almost similar code base everywhere. This includes database APIs like Mongoose, Express framework, Angular etc. I was like what a heck I can use snippets.

Community snippets are awesome, but they come with their own challenges
- Not compatible with my(your) style of coding
- Can not be shared across multiple editors, consistency
- Not easy to modify or edit the chunks you don't like

## Why would you use this tool
I Asked myself the same thing??  There are many reasons you could use this tool, apart from it solving the above issues it has its own magic.
- Its a tool, not snippets - NinjaSnippets is not snippets but a tool to help you build you own. You can use the existing one if you like em and if not create your own no hard feelings.
- Easy installation - its clone, install build and you are ready to go
- Easy to create, modify snippets and reflect changes - This tool enables you to create new snippets, modify existing ones and the changes will be reflected in all your editors(sublime and Vs Code)
- Takes configuration approach

Software development is like art, Every Artist has his/her own way of doing things. Different developers approach things differently and NinjaSnippets is here to help you express your art does not change it. Are you excited to try it out??

# How to get started.

Clone this repository to your workspace and run the following commands

```javascript
  $ git clone https://github.com/andela-thomas/NinjaSnippets

  $ cd cd NinjaSnippets

  $ npm install

```
## Important files and folders you need to Know
NinjaSnippets has the following folders and files. (Not all are included). These are key files and folders you should be aware of
```bash
├── config/
├── config.yml
├── gulpfile.js
├── install.sh
├── parser/
├── snippets/
```
### config/
This is the folder that holds snippet configuration. The files here are named by language or framework name. example if you are configuring snippets for angular then you will create a file called `angular.yml`.

### parser/
This folder contains the parsers for supported editors. These parsers use the configurations provided to parser and build snippets for all supported editors (sublime and Vs code)

## snippets
This folder contains the snippets that will be built, these files are automatically generated by the gulp tasks to once the configurations has been done.

## config.yml
This file holds the editor configuration, this enables the parsers to build snippets in the correct format that is required by each supported editor.

## gulpfile.js
Holds the tasks that automate the build and installation process.

## install.sh
This is bash script that provides  the appropriate commands for installation and uninstalling snippets

There are other files that are not included here if you feel lost reach out and I will be happy to answer your queries.

## How to build and Install existing snippet

Ninja comes with gulp task that makes installation and building snippets easy.

1. Building sublime snippets
    ```
    $ gulp build:sublime
    ```
    This command will build sublime snippets and store them in `ninjaSnippet` folder.

2. Building Vs code snippets.
    ```
    $ gulp build:vscode
    ```
    This command will build Vs Code snippets and store then in the `vscode` folder.
3. Building and installing all snippets( sublime and Vs Code)
    ```
    $ gulp build
    ```
4. Installing built snippets.
  ```
  # installs sublime snippets
  $ ./install.sh -i sublime

  # installs vscode snippets
  $ ./install.sh -i vscode
  ```

**_Note: This script has been configured  to work on mac Osx, Linux and windows may require manually moving files to appropriate folders._**

## Creating Your first snippet
As I mentioned, NinjaSnippets is a tool, therefore, it enables you to create your own snippets to your liking. Let me take you through step by step on how  to build your own snippet. I will be using an example to make it easy to understand.

Ninja uses `config.yml` file to create and build snippets all you need is the name of the file, description of your snippet, the trigger and the scope where the snippet should be used.

```yaml
- name: js-for-each
  description: Native javaScipt forEach Loop
  trigger: js:forEach
  scope: source.js
```

When you run `gulp` in your terminal  Ninja will create a js-for-each.snippet file in snippets folder. This is the file we will use to write our snippet.

In `js-for-each.snippet` file add the following:

```javascript
${1:Array}.forEach((${2:element}, ${3:index}, ${4:Array}) => {
  // Iterative code here
  ${5}
});

```

When you save, Ninja will rebuild and install this snippet to your sublime text and Vs Code. In your Sublime, you can access the snippet  as follows

```
js:forEach

```

Please refer to sublime and Vs Code snippets documentation for more details.

## Ignore build

If you want to ignore a specific snippet you can easily do that bu adding  `ignore: true` to the snippet configuration. Let us use the above example we created js:forEach snippet but we don't need to build it anymore. we will modify its configuration to look as follows.

```yaml
- name: js-for-each
  description: Native javaScipt forEach Loop
  trigger: js:forEach
  scope: source.js
  ignore: true

```
When the parser encounters this property i will ignore the configuration and will not include it to your snippet files.

## Contribution
This project is opensource therefore Contributions are welcome. There are two ways you can contribute.

- Sharing your snippets.
- Improving the parser.

For more details check our wiki. Its time to go Ninja.
